[MUSIC]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
here's an add on to that example.
The difference here is
we have a setTimeout.
What does a setTimeout do?
>> John: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What
would an alert do?
>> Rich: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yes,
so it will wait 1000 milliseconds,
which is 1 second.
And then it will call this function.
So, it doesn't call it right away,
it creates a delay.
And so if you call this function here
closureAlert, lets walk through it.
So, from the top, from the top let's see.
Remind me of your name again, is it John?
>> John: John, yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay.
So let's walk through how this
code would run in the browser.
>> John: All right.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Everyone
gets one line.
>> John: This one mine?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
>> John: Going to see the closure alert,
define function.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And then Rich?
>> Rich: [INAUDIBLE]
Then it jumps
past all that to set time out to that.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
this is the entire function body.
>> John: The entire function body, okay.
>> Rich: So it goes after that and
it calls closure alert?
And invokes that.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm, and then Grace.
>> Grace: So, we're in the body function
and it assigns the string to x.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep, and then Joe.
>> Joe: There's another function there,
but
it gets skipped, right?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, we skip it.
Skip this function.
>> Joe: Then you setTimeout,
wait 1,000 milliseconds.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Does it wait now?
>> Joe: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Does it pause?
>> Joe: It pauses one second.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: It's actually
asynchronous so it's not gonna pause.
It's not gonna pause it for that.
That's a common misconception.
>> Joe: So it's like a scheduler.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so it says,
okay, do call alerter in one second.
>> Joe: But I'm gonna do whatever else
>> Bianca Gandolfo: But
it's gonna keep running, keep going.
And then, Kim?
>> Kim: Console
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And then, William?
>> William: I'm sorry,
I was looking at the comments.
Where we at?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Right here.
We're at this console out log.
>> William: All the fun stuff's over.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I know.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
then, where does it go?
>> William: It will jump out
of running that function,
go back to where it's
called a closureAlert.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
>> [INAUDIBLE].
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And then
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
in one second, what happens?
>> William: That alerter is called final.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep.
The alerter is called.
So then what do we do?
Kevin?
>> Kevin: alert(x).
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I'll get to
that question in just a second.
So alert(x).
And what's x been?
>> Kevin: Just the string?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
>> Kevin: It's defined earlier.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep.
>> Kevin: A closure.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What does it say?
You can read it in a funny
voice if you want.
>> Kevin: Help, I'm a variable stuck.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: That's
your funny voice.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Kevin: A closure.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: All right,
[LAUGH], that works.
>> Speaker 9: Just to note here that
everyone can please raise our voices
a little bit so we can hear the questions.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay.
Cool.
So we alert it, and then where does it go?
Jake, we just need to complete.
>> Jake: It's all complete,
so go down there.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, and
then it just goes down here.
>> Jake: In one second.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
Awesome, Tanner?
>> Tanner: So do you ever have to
worry about setting In that case,
you set it as second.
You don't have to worry about the code
catching up to the timer that you set, so
that stuff might get out of order.
Like in this example, let's say you
did this on a 386 or something.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: On a what?
>> Tanner: On a really old computer.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Uh-huh.
>> Tanner: Would it
Would it ever get to the point where
it accidentally didn't get that far.
Do you see what I'm saying?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Like
it would be too slow?
>> Tanner: Right.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I don't know I never
had I've never done anything where the
millisecond is really important something
down to the millisecond but
I can't imagine that it's so accurate.
Because of the way like the queue and
the stack and the event loop work.
So the event loop doesn't
run all the time.
So the way I imagine that it
wouldn't be 100% accurate.
>> Tanner: If you had a loop here that was
looking Code that was executing without
ever returning back to the event,
the process would work.
If that took five seconds to run,
set time object would then
run as soon as that event gets rescheduled
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, okay.
>> Tanner: Rather than
waiting a second after it.
Finished running that five second process.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, exactly.
And then you had a question?
>> Speaker 9: The question was
what is the said time out?
Is that a function?
>> John: Yeah.
>> Speaker 9: Where does that come from?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Set time out is
just a native function that comes,
I belive with the browser.
And we know it's a function because we see
these These two parentheses next to it.
And that's calling a function, we call it.
What are some other times that we
see two parentheses near each other.
So we talked a little bit about where we
saw two squiggly brackets near each other,
when else do we see this syntax?
>> Speaker 9: Expression statement.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: This is specifically.
>> Speaker 9: An if
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, like an if, so
you have an if statement, or
use it so if, parentheses and
they only have the curly brackets.
>> Speaker 12: I have
a different question.
>> John: Okay.
>> Speaker 12: Loops.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Loops, so
we use them for loops as well.
Where else?
We use them in functions right after
the function keyword here or
the function name.
And that's all I can think of.
>> Speaker 12: And does mathematical
expression insert precedence?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, totally.
So we can use it to change
the order of the math
the way it's I guess precedence
is a good way of saying it.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so those are
the only times I can think of off the top
of my head.
So we have if statements, we have loops.
There's also switch, and
then in the functions.
Those are the off the top of my head,
the only times when we see that.
And so just keep that in mind.
If it doesn't look like a loop,
we know what loops look like.
If it doesn't look like an if
statement and all these things,
then you're probably calling a function.
>> Kevin: What about when you wanna
create an anonymous function?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
>> Kevin: Is that just like a hack or
is that a valid JavaScript?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: That's
a valid JavaScript,
you can use an anonymous function.
Mm-hm?
>> Joe: I think, I'm lost.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Sure.
>> Joe: If I were the interpreter,
the first thing I would do is skip
all the way Next to the bottom line.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yes.
>> Joe: We're on closureAlert,
then I would go up to the top and
run the function to set X and
skip the next function.
Now, I hit the time out, I wait a second
and I would run the alerter function.
I would go back up and
set x [INAUDIBLE] alert.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Let me stop you there.
>> Joe: Okay good, so I'm all-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Set time is not
blocking.
>> Joe: Say that again?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: The set time out is
not blocking so it will actually
run the console log next and
then it will actually just
exit this function and
it will wait one second down here And
once the setTimeout works,
that's when we get into
the alerter function.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Joe: So
What does this have to do with closure.
I can't put the two together.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: We're getting there.
>> Joe: Okay.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: We're getting
there, yeah.
I'm just starting off with some things
that don't seem too unusual and we've done
before and we're comfortable with them and
then we're going to get in closure.
I like to start it off slow.
And then we'll get there.
And then I just out of nowhere
trick you and I was like ha.
>> Joe: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
[LAUGH]